INTRODUCTION
------------

The author will first outline general considerations and then proceed to detail the major choices made on a per package
basis.

Logging
-------
Logging was used sparingly throughout the application, being implemented in what were the most important and pertinent
classes.  These classes are concerned with direct database file access and locking.  Log messages will include details
such as how many records match a search, if deleted records were found during a search and if exceptions were thrown
(displaying associated stack traces) during read / write operations.  The lock / update / unlock process is also logged.
Finally, server startup and shutdown are also displayed.

Record Indentification
----------------------
Record numbers are derived from the position in which they appear in the file.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


suncertify.db
--------------

This package is primarily concerned with database access and record locking.  The supplied DB interface was extended
to include 2 extra methods that specify that implementing classes should have a method to close their database connections,
and to indicate if their database connection is of a local nature.  That is, if the database resides on the same machine.
This allowed closing of the RandomAccessFile used to read from and write to the database file.

Database operations
-------------------
The package is primarily concerned with database access and record locking.  The supplied DB interface was extended
to include 2 extra methods that specify that implementing classes should have a method to close their database connections,
and to indicate if their database connection is of a local nature.  That is, if the database resides on the same machine.
This allowed closing of the RandomAccessFile used to read from and write to the database file.

Data implements the extended CloseableDB interface and is in essence a facade which delegates CRUD operations on the
database to DBAccessor and record locking responsibilities to LockManager.  DBAccessor uses a RandomAccessFile instance
to perform the CRUD operations.  No caching of records is implemented so each read from or write to the database
is performed directly on the file and so constitutes an IO operation.  Given that most methods in RandomAccessFile
throw checked exceptions, for Data to maintain compliance with the supplied DB interface, it was deemed necessary to
catch the checked exceptions and instead throw DBException.  DBException extends RuntimeException and is of course
unchecked.

As per best practice, DBException is not included in DBAccessor method signatures but it is however included in the @throws
sections of Javadocs.  DBException is also shown in the Javadocs of classes that use DBAccessor such as Data (and indeed
the classes that use Data).  This was done to make absolutely clear what users of Data should expect.

Locking
-------
As mentioned, LockManager is responsible for record locking to prevent simultaneous updates of a record by several clients,
resulting in data corruption.  LockManager maintains a Map<Integer, Long> hash map that maps a given record number to a lock
cookie that is generated when the record is locked.  Thus when a client attempts to unlock the record after an update,
it must do so by supplying the lock cookie generated in the lock phase.  Attempts to unlock a record with an invalid
cookie result in a SecurityException being thrown.  If a client attempts to lock a record that is already locked, it is
placed in a waiting state by the Object.wait() method which is called on a mutex.  When a record is successfully unlocked,
Object.notifyAll() is invoked to indicate to other threads that a record has been unlocked and to attempt to obtain a
lock on their desired record again.

A potential problem with the locking mechanism was identified in that if a client locks a record and then fails for some
reason, that record remains locked forever, unavailable to any other client.  An investigation was carried out into
starting a timer after a lock had been obtained and giving a client an arbitrary amount of time to complete its task,
after which the lock would automatically released.  This was however not in the requirements of the project and was
not implemented.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

suncertify.network:
-------------------



